# My understanding of Chapter 6 Good Style from Zobel’s Writing for Computer Science [1, pp. 75–95]

The focus for this chapter is on simplifying and clarifying language. Zobel states that it is important that meaning is conveyed clearly to persuade the reader of the value of the work. [[1, p. 75]](https://www.zotero.org/google-docs/?mshNz5). When writing is unclear whether intentionally through obfuscation or due to poor style, a reader will mistrust statements. 

First, we must ensure that our writing is economical. Our words must be to the point and the construction of sentences must not be flowery. Economical writing ensures greater precision that leads to a clarity of meaning. We must not forget that the reader is not in our mind. We must be focused on conveying meaning with minimal obfuscation. A good quotation from Zobel is in response to feedback where we should be aware that our writing can be misinterpreted even when we are sure of its meaning “Rather than telling yourself ‘the reader is wrong’, ask yourself ‘what did I write that led the reader astray?’”.

Second, we must have a logical flow with our writing. One sentence or paragraph should flow to the next and be focused on the idea it is conveying. There must be no winding sentences. Instead short sentences that are crisp and easy-to-understand are required. Being specific with our language will mean we are more likely to get our message across.

Third, we outline the journey and destination to the reader. Stating early the narrative logic of our writing communicates that we as writers have given thought to the narrative. Communication of the narrative logic signals to the reader that there is a plan. Referencing the narrative logic throughout our writing indicates that there was intention. For example in connecting paragraphs or in summaries at the end of ideas. Zobel underlines the impact of well-structured narrative structure “Tell the reader what you are going to say, then say it, and then tell the reader that you have said it.” [[1, p. 80]](https://www.zotero.org/google-docs/?0YQ15Y).

Fourth, as writers we should write in the active voice. The active voice is the direct style and is easier to read. “We” is preferable to the use of the authors, but the use of the personal pronoun “I” should be avoided unless it indicates an opinion.

Fifth, building on our first point on economical writing, each sentence must stand by itself and inform the reader. To generalise is a problem as it is vague and doesn’t inform the reader. For example, to say that “Driving cars is bad for the environment” is not as useful to the reader as “Carbon dioxide from cars is responsible for 10% of the global carbon dioxide pollution”. We must balance clarity, economy and newness in our writing.

Sixth, straw man arguments must be avoided. A straw man is an indefensible hypothesis. To say “it can be argued that humans do not need fun” is not valid as both the writer and reader know that it is not true. Straw man arguments undermine the writer and demonstrate a need to be correct rather than to prove to be correct through evidence.

Seventh, when we reference from sources, we must ensure that this is clear to understand for the reader. For example, to say “Other works have stated …” is not clear to the reader whereas, “Hamilton and Corruthers have stated …” indicates good research. References themselves must be easy for the reader to look up [[1, p. 87]](https://www.zotero.org/google-docs/?PvyRLG). It is best to paraphrase sources rather than to use direct quotations. 
